and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning and if you want to check out my
week daily emails free playbooks
resources and if you're ready you'll
apply to work with me head over to
samdunning.org
so today I'm joined by Pasha urshad Asha
is the co-founder of over at shape and
scale Pasha welcome to the show sir how
are we hey it's great to be here
good man good man looking forward to the
converts the first guest episode we've
done in a while since the kind of summer
break I've been messing around with solo
episodes on various B2B topics so
looking forward to diving in with a
guest so hopefully I can ramble a bit
less and have some of your expertise on
on today sir so um we're gonna be diving
into how B2B companies Canal rev UPS
Revenue operations
it's got stuck in straight away for
anyone that's not too familiar with
Redbox has maybe heard that term flying
around on LinkedIn or somewhere else
what what's the Crux of it what's like a
high level overview of what rev Ops
entails Pasha yeah it's funny you know I
was at inbound Last Week Big HubSpot
conference in the U.S and was joking a
lot with people that rev offices you
know 30 different definitions
um I think the most common one that we
hear or you might hear is the alignment
of sales marketing and customer service
to drive Revenue growth
um you know you hear about unification
breaking down silos all those different
things I think from my standpoint uh the
way I like to describe it is really more
around the data aspect so it's aligning
those departments to agree on uh data
that allows us to make predictable
decisions that affect Revenue right
because you know a lot of my clients you
know when you're running demand gen
programs you really need to understand
how those conversion rates look right
what is mql the SQL SQL the opportunity
what does that look like and then how
can we adjust based on that
go to go to so basically using the data
from each team whether that sells
marketing operations mqls sqls to inform
kind of what's moving the needle what's
driving revenue and and all that good
stuff yeah
when it comes to rev-ups is it
something that kind of startups or B2B
companies that are fairly new should be
even thinking about or is it typically
for later stage businesses yeah there's
again another really good question
um you know I I consult for startups
um and I actually do it with another
another group of people outside of my
business we've just been testing the
theory that we have out and it's
interesting when we look at like founder
LED I would say obviously not right like
at that point you're just trying to get
your 10 first customers you're trying to
do things that don't scale you're
basically trying to find product Market
fit I think once you reach product
Market fit and then you start to explore
go to market fit and you have that idea
of doing things that are repeatable that
help you scale to get to 10 million and
past that then I think Revenue
operations obviously plays a part right
now when that first hire is made that's
a decision that really really has to do
with just the direction for your company
and when you think it's relevant like I
would say
you know there's more important hires
probably like from a marketing
perspective maybe from a sales
perspective I think Jacks of all trades
are or let's call generalists are very
important at earlier stage startups
because you don't want to hire somebody
that's too senior right we call that the
cufflink higher coupling against the
table they don't want to do anything
that's winning by Design quote
um but I do think as we move forward I
think we see it on LinkedIn there's a
lot more people that have
cross-functional expertise and
cross-functional curiosity so I would
just say like even if you're not
necessarily hiring somebody from a
revenue operations perspective they're
small things that you can do and I
honestly think truly skilled marketing
leaders should have the ability to kind
of look at the tech stack right
understand why they purchase something
understand if it's being used and then
when you're ready to kind of hire there
is some type of like framework there and
again I use the term framework Loosely
yeah yeah I think that might be quite
useful actually for our audience like if
we could look at this from when it goes
to founder lead it's when you're perhaps
running a bootstrap company maybe it's
just you maybe it's you and a couple
others and you're essentially like you
say a jack of all trades just like I've
been in various businesses where you're
running the marketing yourself you're
running the sales yourself you're
probably delivering the services or
product yourself
um like what that looks like from a REV
UPS kind of trying to manage or manage
all the data yourself right through to
when you've scaled to x amount in
Revenue whether that is I think you said
10 mil or so and it's more relevant
um and how how that changes when it
comes to actually the ability to hire
people and take more control yeah and I
mean if you think about it let's just
use like zero to one million one million
to 10 million and 10 million and up I
mean zero to one million
um I was just in another podcast the
other day and I was you know saying like
if you're really sussing out a
um like CRM at that point I think it's a
waste of time right like you can
probably just get by in a spreadsheet
when your founder-led you know you're
under 1 million especially if you're
going after bigger fish right like I
I've just recently met with a company
Healthcare space
um you know two Founders selling
Enterprise really there it's about kind
of getting people just into some type of
beta program beta customer is getting
data back from them and so really there
like it would be wrong in my opinion to
even focus on that but once you hit 1
million and you start to scale usually
what helps you scale are people and
Technology right
um the third pillar of that is going to
be process and I think that's where rev
Ops really fits in so again if you bring
on HubSpot like a lot of my clients do
at that point you got to make a decision
who owns HubSpot right you start
assigning ownership if you bring on an
accounting executive are they working in
HubSpot
um have they used Salesforce before if
you bring them onto your team how do you
integrate them into your systems to make
them successful because that's the
biggest thing right it's like
people hire
BC pressure comes in we need you to turn
around results in six months but if it's
taking three months to get smarter than
a piece of software that helps you do
your job better
I don't know it just doesn't make sense
right
but yeah let's dive a bit deeper and I'm
I'm very much the same as you like I'm
terrible when it comes to CRM like I run
a lot of our stuff off Google Sheets
still just because that's what I'm used
to and I guess in the past I had a
nightmare with crm's never really
getting on with them and never really
taking the time to integrate everything
and sync everything up so yeah like most
of my pipeline sheets my client sheets
are ran on Trello and then everything
else is just Google Sheets and a
mishmash of Google Drives so which is
probably the worst example but when it
comes to the um the first stage kind of
naught to one mil when you're scaling up
from perhaps found a lead or a bootstrap
situation what are some of those if you
are keeping everything on spreadsheets
from a revenue operation side of things
what are some of the key metrics
that you encourage Founders to keep a
tight grip on to keep a tight eye on and
kind of measure until you're ready to go
to that CRM stage and higher yeah I mean
that's a good question and again it kind
of depends on the business model but I
mean look for CRM and if you think about
just the if you think about it from like
an option objects and properties
perspective let's take Financial aside I
mean obviously as you know you're going
to be worried about you know the
accounts that you're going after who are
the decision makers at those accounts
when's the last time you've reached out
to them when do you need to reach out to
them again
um just everything around kind of that
sales process and that flywheel right as
as we talk about financial that becomes
a different story if we're a SAS
operation it's going to be the things
that you know everybody should have a
pretty good idea of but you're worried
about lifetime customer value you're
worried about payback period you're
worried about customer acquisition cost
um again at founder that might be a
little bit early but generally those are
the metrics that are going to tell you
about the health of your business
um
I would say it found your light it's
probably a little bit less of that maybe
it's just like you know again you just
want to know revenue and revenue out
number of customers and then as you get
past that you know if it's and again if
it's not SAS well then that becomes kind
of a different story
sure sure and how does that change like
in the example you gave once you get to
that one million annual revenue stage
when you then look at things like
implementing a CRM onboarding or hires
whether that's Marketing sales or
elsewhere how should things change in
your opinion
yeah I mean look it depends how you
think about it I like to think about it
as what's going to be your system and
record right so and my cat is going to
walk across this
okay the system of record is going to be
usually your CRM right
um it's going to be maybe marketing
automation platform and then what sits
aside what sits alongside that right so
like any type of Data Solutions that you
have from like a data Integrity that
could be business bi
um you know anything like that and then
you have usually your point Solutions or
Standalone apps something like a
calendly take care of your schedule when
you look at those three things right
just like system of record the platform
the customer facing platform is usually
going to be your most expensive purchase
um I think the reason HubSpot I'm a
partner and it does so well is simply
because of the fact that it plays so
many different parts of the customer
Journey it's come from a marketing
automation platform 70 years ago when I
first started with them all the way to
basically servicing Marketing sales and
success and I don't say that as like an
ad for them it just really helps
companies that are looking to scale have
everything in one database without
having to add a bunch of other things
um I think it's really just like
understanding your goal right like what
are our goals
um you always start with that what is
our vision
um I literally just got off the phone
what phone call where the founder said
hey like we have short-term goals but
then we want to make sure anything that
we plan for today fits our long-term
Vision so when we're doing Tech stack
Consulting we usually have a road map
right and that road map is mapped to
revenue growth or desired Revenue growth
and then how are the systems platforms
technology we have in place today going
to help them to do that
got it and how do you advise that
companies kind of spend their time
because you probably know better than
most that you can when it comes to
analyzing data whether that is average
customer cost whether that's annual
revenue whether that's your pipeline
whether that's what your team's up to
whether that's your forecasting you can
easily spend hours or even days stuck in
the data yeah kind of planning
short-term medium-term goals how do you
balance that between actually doing the
work your day-to-day to bring on new
customers enhance existing customer
experience all that good stuff yeah it's
a really good question the answer is
kind of boring but I'll start with an
answer I'll I'll start with something
right like one thing I see when I go and
I audit um you know HubSpot instances
four again let's just say like one to
five million we'll go into HubSpot and
we'll see I don't know five to ten Super
admins and then I go into the reporting
section and I see 30 different reports
sales people have reports marketing
people reports then I look at dashboards
and those dashboards are all over the
place right right there is a great way
to completely take your organization out
of course because there's no single
source of truth from a data perspective
um it's an overused cliche term I get
that but I think what it really comes
down to is departmental alignment right
having bi-weekly meetings having some
type of monthly meeting quarterly
meeting being very aligned towards the
North Star and then either having you
know objectives and key results and or
having leading the lagging indicators
that can be easily digested in one to
two to three to four like main
dashboards calm whatever that allow
leaders to have the visibility to make
the decisions right with predictability
so for marketing that could just be
again leading indicators lagging
indicators leading is going to be
I don't know I mean there's so much
Scott I mean as you know on LinkedIn
there's so much discussion over this but
like you know there could let's just
call it website sessions let's call it
like accounts penetrated uh through ad
frequency and then let's say it's like
you know mqls and opportunities
um for sales leaders it could just be
you know how many meetings are we having
um out of those meetings how many have
booked a follow-up demo for you know
demo to opportunity usually it's a
combination of activity and then
conversion rates and then you know for
Success could be something different but
to re to reiterate all that it's having
some type of like shared Vision right
that everybody agrees on share taxonomy
of Revenue terms one to five dashboards
that everybody uses to guide that vision
and then a departmental level making
sure they have the visibility into what
they need
got it so it sounds like having a Clear
Vision on those key metrics you want to
want to track and whether that is like
you say website sessions how certain ads
that you're running a performing
how many meetings are being held how
many of those are progressing to Second
meeting or demo and I'm guessing deal
one depending on sales cycle and all
that good stuff yeah I mean that's it
when you think about it it's going to be
three things right it's going to be
volume which is the number of mqls sqls
whatever it may be it's going to be
conversion rates right so like those
conversion rates can be on the website
which you know very well or it can just
be conversion rates from you know stage
to stage and then it's going to be time
bound right so it's like how many days
did it take till X happens
um and that's usually in the form of
sales cycle if you can get clarity on
those three and have your data in a
position to where you can trust it and
the output of that is those three types
of metrics I think you're in a pretty
good place that being said it's it's not
the easiest thing to do
um any other big mistakes that you see
B2B companies make on this front
um you know I I think not treating their
technology as a revenue generating asset
right like I think when you you like
just look at like a business level and
you look at the Investments you make
like op-x cabex all that stuff right
like your technology like when you
purchase customer you know when you
purchase a CRM it's literally called
customer relationship management
software right it's to better
um it's to better serve your customer
like that is the goal and then the
secondary goal should be to empower your
team to do their job better so in
service of the customer I think people
just get solution after solution without
taking the time to really put in the
plan around it right to say like how are
we going to make it so people get the
most out of this investment if you buy a
gym for your house and it's ten thousand
dollars
a pretty damn well sure you're going to
put in place of land to make the best of
it you're not just going to let it sit
in the corner right
um or at least you're going to try not
to so and in return that gym is going to
make you healthier it's going to make
you happier I'm a big Fitness guy so I I
just think it's the same thing with
technology
um again it's very cliche but you know
people will onboard HubSpot and then
they'll literally start getting
something else and I'll be like hey did
you know that HubSpot can actually do
this and it can do it pretty much just
as well so instead of having two
solutions why don't we just have one
optimize that really optimize it right
and then when we say that it's we can't
we've reached like our nadir on that
like we've gotten to the top of the
mountain then we can evaluate bringing
something in right and like an example
might be if your sales team grows and
they just need like automatic routing
and then you know chili Piper comes into
play
that's an example right you scale from
like five to twenty sales people and
then it's like hey maybe maybe we just
need something a little bit more robust
than HubSpot even though they've come
out with you know some things to combat
that but that that's just an example I
could use
yeah yeah nice I like it so it sounds
like just making sure you're you putting
to play the tools that you've got
getting the best bang for buck out of
them really so in your case you
obviously do a lot of HubSpot work and
making sure you're gonna use utilizing
the key key features of it so yeah
intensity metrics then let's report
another problem you probably know well
it's like when a new CMO comes on it's
like hey we want to like you know build
a new website then you probably take a
look at the website you're like
well we could or you could optimize
these 10 things right like we could
optimize page speed or we could you know
clean up the navigation or we could do a
brand refresh it's just and I'm not
saying it's just I used to do web
development and you know it would always
be like let's tear it up and I'm like
but you're not even utilizing kind of
what you have right like the
infrastructure isn't there so it I don't
know
yeah yeah I get it let's um putting kind
of software and tools to one side
I I as I often do I like to get a bit
controversial and a bit have have
different opinions on on topics on this
show so when it comes to rev-ops
what team should be responsible for what
a lot of people on LinkedIn are saying
revenue is a team sport I see a lot of
companies now actually make their
marketing leaders whether that's VP of
marketings or CMOS responsible for the
outbound motion so I've seen sdr's
report to marketing leaders I've seen it
the other way where their outbound team
reports to a sales leader
um we've seen marketing with companies
like cognizant where marketing and
demand gen are like running a nearly
kind of I think 60 or so percent of
qualified opportunities when I last
check something like that could be wrong
on the stat yeah so a lot of B2B orgs
whether they're Tech whether they're
service based kind of scale there or
build up rather their revenue teams in
different ways
in your opinion
what's the right way it should work out
yeah it's a good question I mean it's
interesting that you say that like I I
talked to a Founder two weeks ago and
you know I asked them to tell me teams
he had one team was a digital marketer
and then it's man generation but guess
what outbound was sitting underneath the
man that was the first time I'd heard
that right I I was actually kind of
taken aback I I hadn't heard of that
structure before that doesn't mean it's
wrong
um I talked to another company where
the marketing leader wasn't in charge of
ICP wasn't in charge of Tam wasn't in
charge of data that all said underneath
Revenue operations which guess what it
could cause The Silo
um and then yeah like a lot of the times
if you think about technology
technology investment is owned by
marketing right
um but that doesn't always work
I would say in my opinion what probably
works the best and this really only
works if you are at a bit larger
organization is where you have a member
from each one of those customer face
departments along with it and revenue
operations have a sort of
um almost a board that sits across the
organization that communicates that
um isn't afraid to give differing
opinions
meets in a neutral way to basically act
as a shared Revenue function now again
like this is also new and this is why I
don't maybe have the best answer but
it's like
I mean I talked to cros in the CR role
that you know they own a little bit of
marketing right there's like almost
encroachment on like marketing from what
they're doing so I would say in my
opinion that's probably best but that
requires an organization to be a bit
more mature and I would say other than
that it's really going to be just
dependent on you know the size of your
organization organization size of your
team I wouldn't say it's a controversial
answer but like for my opinion what I've
seen that works the best that's it
that's where you have a representative
from each department that is senior
enough to advocate for them but then is
also working together towards a shared
objective and those are Revenue goals
now
can you like completely get rid of the
mql SQL and just be like ah epic like
we're just gonna I don't know I don't
think that works honestly I think the
mql has gotten
hammered to the ground but the reality
is 8 out of 10 conversations I have it's
still there so I think what I try to do
is just clearly freaking Define the
thing right like what is it why is it
you know instead of doing like one lead
Square property let's have a demographic
lead squirrel let's have a behavioral
let's have a firmographic so we have
like a full vision of that customer and
then let's iterate the hell out of it
like we test everything else right
um the idea that you like have an mq on
an SQL and the definition never changes
from when you're at one million to 10
million it's kind of just
it's kind of idiotic it's like the SEO
is dead people I don't know um you know
I'm I'm I have an SEO background I would
never be at your skill level but I still
anytime I look at something I have my
keywords everywhere I'm looking at
search volume and it's not dead and it's
never going to be dead you know and it's
got its place so
it linkedin's an echo chamber one uh I
think it's very easy and I I've been it
too right you over rotate on the soup du
jour like the man gen everything else
has got to go the reality is it's always
somewhere in the middle right it's
different for every organization it's
different for every industry
um
and I think all I'm talking about really
when I talk about the perfect Revenue
structure it's just processing people
right like how do we optimize that
um
you know um
a lot of SAS companies tech companies
still go with the kind of classic
predictable Revenue model
which I don't know if it's still as
strong as it was where they'll still go
out and live with it most of the time
they'll get funding
yep and they'll hire a bunch of sdrs or
bdrs and then a bunch of A's and do that
classic group and it feels like a
significant chunk of the budget goes
into that outbound motion on those sales
reps bearing in mind kind of the rough
cost per sales reps about 60k a year
that's excluding any cons
um and then they'll kind of allocate the
rest of the budget to whether that's
inbound marketing whether that's demand
gen or however they see it
do you think that model is still
effective for Revenue teams
I don't honestly um and that's another
thing against sdrs um look a lot of my
clients have VC pressure right like when
you get a big chunk of change there
needs to be you need
you need to meet the need of the people
who've invested in you and usually those
needs are somewhat
disproportionate to the reality of the
situation so I think we're all pretty
aware that
and I'm going to choose my words
carefully there's just more pressure
than ever right so like you come into a
situation and you know the sales cycle
is six to nine months but people expect
results from marketing and three what's
tangible right is an SDR calling
somebody them getting the lead and then
that lead progresses to a closed one
right it's very tangible you can touch
it we all know the attribution issues
with marketing at some point and I'm not
the first person to say this but
marketing really became like I think I
saw it's like Chris Walker who said it
but bargaining became almost like a
sales function right it's like what can
we do from a short-term perspective to
capture demand and then convert that
demand the problem with that is further
down the line like that demand goes away
and then you're basically behind
everybody else so what I would say is I
have I'm not like anti-sdr I'm super pro
sales but I'm I'm I want to do it in a
way that's very smart so if we're going
to do what you just talked about right
and say we've got an account list of 2
000 people I want marketing to also
understand that those 2000 accounts are
I want marketing to ensure that we're
running you know paid against those
accounts as best that we can through
Linkedin through programmatic media
where we know that we're all kind of
singing the same choir sheet right we're
singing the same messages we have a
Playbook at the sales level and we're
sharing information between the two so
it's more in unison as opposed to what I
see in that hey guess what like we're
gonna get Tech Target mqls right which
again I didn't say it no offense detect
Target but we're going to get content
syndication mqls we're going to dump
them into Sierra and we're going to have
the sdrs call them we're going to have
them email them through our main domain
we're not going to get through to that
then marketing is going to be off doing
something else and it's not cohesive so
I think what works is is a a cohesive
strategy and I think that requires
people in process and so it just goes
back to really what I was saying there's
I don't think there's a right way right
like the reality is if you're in a
market and there's just not a lot of
demand to capture right
and you have VC pressure you're going to
run out of money you got to do something
and the quickest thing to do is pick up
the phone and call it's it's email it's
LinkedIn and that's just the reality but
I think you can do it in a way that's
smart and I don't think that should be
controversial
yeah what do you think yeah yeah I was
going to chip in my two cents I think
some of those points are fair I think
like you said depends on your industry
right if you're in a well-known category
where there's a ton of people searching
for what you do then outbound initially
is not going to make that much sense
because you can just dump your cash into
things like paid ads review sites SEO
and just capture all those prospects
that are actively in the market for what
you do and obviously once you exhaust
that that's when you want to think about
things like demand generation
doing some outbound sales as well but if
you are in a category that's
not as well known that's a bit more
Niche and there's not many people
searching for what you do because they
don't know it exists then that's what
and on the basis that you've got a
decent ticket size value so you're not
selling kind of a real small
um costing item then outbound sales
makes sense
but I think as the tech crunch is
hitting I think sales reps in my opinion
should be more full cycle so able to
hunt their own food it's able to
prospect whether that's cold outbound
Cooling
LinkedIn email whatever's able to run
all that stuff themselves as one single
sales rep but also the ability to deal
with any inbound leads whether they come
from I don't know the website direct or
other means unable to handle those
effectively so they're kind of giving a
double hit rather than just doing a bit
of outbound generating the audio meeting
that you've then got to send to naive
you've got someone that's kind of fully
equipped which is probably going to be a
bit more of an investment but I think
going to be more useful to these higher
ticket solution orgs I agree I think a
lot of what I'm saying is probably
colored by maybe just some of the
engagements I've had where I've seen
that pressure and it's kind of like
it's kind of hard for marketing to say
like hey we need like six to nine to 12
months right so it's uh unfortunately
I'm colored by that a little bit but I
would agree with a more
um full cycle and like you said like
sales some sdrs starting to report into
marketing you know like a lot of people
have talked about that I I think we need
to try new things I mean that I'm
definitely on board with you know
um I just think everything works
together in concert like
one of the first things I always tell my
clients it's like hey guys like instead
of doing paid right like if we have the
easiest way not you know easiest one for
me is like if I see a CPC that's 14
bucks but the search volume is 5200 and
it's that tells me people are bidding on
it and it usually drives Revenue so why
don't we just create some killer content
around that own it because you can do
that in one to six months right again
you know better than me but like there's
low hanging fruit that I think people
ignore
um because it takes a little bit more
work but we've definitely worked with
startups where yeah like when we started
out search volume one there and then you
know they kind of owned it and then that
was a great Baseline to build on while
they do all these other things but like
everybody's like don't do SEO and it's
like no it's not that's not right I
don't know
yeah it's all in context right it's all
with when it comes to kind of Revenue
it's I always think is assess who your
focus Market is who's your focus client
where is the quickest possible route to
Market yeah what what is going to be
their no-brainer channel that they're
going to be on most of the time or where
are they going to go if they need your
offer or if they have the problem you
fix where they're going to educate
themselves start with there yeah it's
not with those no-brainer couple
channels
and kind of work up as you as the
revenue flows as as you get cash flow as
you get customers then start worrying
about kind of
growth and things like that is I agree
smart
usually cool Pasha well I appreciate the
convo and um thanks for sharing your
thoughts and insights all things rev UPS
much appreciated with that please do
tell everyone tuning in on how they can
learn more from yourself or connect with
you and your site
yeah uh So Posh irshad on LinkedIn I'm
on there pretty much daily and then my
website shapeandscale.com it's been a
pleasure man
no worries man so we'll put all of those
links in the show notes in the
description and um once again thanks
very much for coming on the show great
it's great to be here thanks everyone
cheers dude if you want to check out the
episode it's going to be over at
businessgrowth.marketing and if you
enjoyed it give us a quick rating or if
you've got time a review is appreciated
on Apple podcast helps us get found and
we'll catch you on the next one for more
no BS bsp marketing tips and insights to
grow your business and revenue cheers
for tuning in